Introduction to the Market Analysis GUI Client


You will need the Java Runtime Enviornment (JRE) in order to run the MA GUI
Client.  See the file java_info for information on obtaining the JRE for
your system.

To run the MA GUI Client from the command line, you will need to change
to the directory:

{mas_dir}/lib/classes

where {mas_dir} stands for the directory into which you installed MAS.
Alternatively, you can set (or change, if it's already set) the CLASSPATH
environment variable to include that directory.  Then you can start the
GUI client with the command:

java MA_Client hostname port_number

where hostname stands for the network name of the computer the server is
running on and port_number is the socket port number the server is using.
(If you're running Windows and this doesn't work, try replacing hostname
with an empty argument - two double quotes - e.g.: java MA_Client "" 12345;
no guarantee, but this works with Windows on my laptop.)

Once the client GUI is running, you can select a market from the server's
database by choosing "Select Market" from the File menu.  Then you can
double-click on a selection to choose the data for that market.  The data
will be displayed using either Japanese candlesticks or standard price
bars, depending on how the GUI is configured.  To display a technical
indicator, select one from the Indicators menu.

The GUI program will look for a file named .ma_clientrc in the current
directory.  If it finds this file, it will use the configurations
specified in the file; if not, it will use default configurations.
(You can find a default .ma_clientrc file in the {mas_dir}/lib/classes
directory.)  The following settings are configurable:

  - Start and end date for daily and weekly data.

  - Drawing style for price data - currently there is a choice of
    candles or price bars.

  - List of indicators to be placed in the main graph (with the market
    data) instead of in the indicator graph.

  - Specification of horizontal and vertical reference lines to be
    drawn with indicators.  (Example: 20% and 80% lines for Stochastic
	indicators.)

  - Specification of colors to be used for candles, sticks, bars, text,
    and lines.

  - Groupings of indicators to allow a set of indicators to be displayed
    in the same scale.

The default .ma_clientrc file has comments (lines starting with #) that
explain the different specifications and their format.

Note that you can open more than one window to view market data.  This is
useful, for example, for viewing more than one market at a time, or for
using different views of the same market - such as daily and weekly data -
at the same time.
