SIGNIFICANT SERVER CHANGES IN RELEASE 1.7

Made modifications to allow the GUI client to run in a user's browser (
by adapting the GUI client to run as an applet and writing a servlet
application to facilitate communication between the applet and the MAS
server).

Implemented multi-threading to allow one window to update itself while
another window is retrieving data from the server.

Fixed the "doesn't resize when a charting window is made smaller" bug.

SIGNIFICANT GUI CLIENT CHANGES IN RELEASE 1.6 OF MAS

Changed to accept the change in protocol from the server regarding
notification of no open field in the data, and changes to handle this
by setting the open value to be the same as the close value.

Changed to handle the new open-interest field available from the server:
Uses the new "open-interest" flag in the client/server protocol to
determine if there is an open interest field and allows displaying of
data and indicators accordingly.

Increased precision of "reference value" display so that, for example,
charts for penny stocks can be viewed with better price context
information.

SIGNIFICANT GUI CLIENT CHANGES IN RELEASE 1.5 OF MAS

Added option to request data from the server to be compressed, and uncompress
the data in the client, using the server's new compression option.  This
sometimes decreases wait time when obtaining new charting data, especially
over a slow network connection.

SIGNIFICANT GUI CLIENT CHANGES IN RELEASE 1.4 OF MAS

Added quarterly data.

Fixed bug that caused the year to be drawn in the wrong place for monthly,
quarterly, and yearly data.

Added support for intraday data.

GUI Improvements: Added bars in the right and bottom margins and moved the
date and numeric reference values to within these bars to clean up the
clutter they were causing when they were inside the graph.  Added display
of reference values for indicators in the bottom right margin - values for
the last indicator selected are displayed.

Changed to allow specifying the reference-value line color.

Improved the arrangement of the data bars at the right and left borders.
The previous version would often draw them too close to the margin so that
part of the bar was obscured.  The improvment fixed this problem.

Changed the configuration file (.ma_clientrc) specification to allow the
start and end dates to use a format such as "now - 10 months" to allow
displaying the same amount of data as time passes and removes the need
to update the configuration file with later dates.

Some minor bug fixes.

SIGNIFICANT GUI CLIENT CHANGES IN RELEASE 1.3 OF MAS

Added the capability to specify which stocks to hold in the selection list
on start up.

Added the capability to print all stocks in the selection list, either
from the GUI or on the command-line during start up.

Changed to save current settings (such as window size and location, selected
indicators, print settings, etc.) when the GUI exits and restore these
values the next time the GUI is started.

Changed to look for the new Invalid_symbol response from the server and if
it occurs display an error dialog, remove the symbol from the selection list,
and continue.

Added the capability to display more than one indicator at a time and to
configure the display color for each indicator so that a user can tell them
apart.

Added the capability to configure groupings of indicators so that each
indicator in the group is displayed in the same scale.  This allows indicators
with common lines configured (such as 20%/80% for the stochastic indicators)
to have their lines drawn in the same location and for the indicators to be
drawn in the same scale.

Removed the Choice button for period types (daily, weekly, ...) and added
a menu selection instead, which allowed configuring shortcut keys so that the
period type can be changed without needing to move the hands from the keyboard
to the mouse.  It also freed up some more space for the graph, since the panel
the choice button was placed on could now go away.

Added "Replace Indicators" toggle menu item to allow the user to switch
between piling indicators on top of each other and only displaying one at a
time.

Added "Select Indicator" menu item, which pops up a selection list of
available indicators (similar to the "Market Selection" menu item).

Added an "Indicator Colors" menu item that will pop up a table of the
currently chosen indicators along with the color of each so that the user can
tell which indicator is which.

Added a "Next" and "Previous" menu item to allow the user to switch to the
next/previous stock in the selection list.

SIGNIFICANT GUI CLIENT CHANGES IN RELEASE 1.2 OF MAS

Added multithreading - each window now runs in its own thread.  Not tested
yet because my jdk installation does not yet have threads enabled.

Changed the market selection list dialog window to stay up unless the user
explicitly closes it (added a close button) by pressing the close button
or hitting the escape key.

Changed cursor to wait cursor while client is retrieving data from server.

Added the current selected indicator in the bottom graph to the window title.

Added code to deal with boundary conditions with small data sets - eliminates
errors (array index out-of-bounds, etc.) when charting stocks with a small
amount of records.

Added chart printing capability.

Made background color configurable; added more color choices.


SIGNIFICANT GUI CLIENT CHANGES IN RELEASE 1.1 OF MAS

Bug: upper and lower indicators were sharing the same drawer object and
thus sharing the same dates.  The symptom was that, when two indicators with
different n values were used (upper and lower indicators) and the start
date requested from the server was the first date available, the upper
indicator, when redrawn, was using the lower indicator's dates, resulting in
it being drawn too far to the right (when its n value was smaller than lower
indicator's n value) and an array out-of-bounds error.  Fixed by giving
upper and lower indicators each their own drawing object.  (July 15, 1999)

Changed float parsing routine to handle the "NaN" (not a number) value
sometimes sent by the server by replacing it with 0.
