INTRODUCTION

The Market Analysis System (MAS) is a software application that provides
tools for analysis of financial markets using technical analysis. MAS
provides facilities for stock charting, including price, volume, and a
wide range of technical analysis indicators. MAS also allows automated
processing of market data - applying technical analysis indicators with
user-selected criteria to market data to automatically generate trading
signals - and can be used as the main component of a sophisticated
trading system. Some of the features of MAS are:

   - Exponential Moving Average, Stochastic, MACD, RSI, On Balance Volume,
     Momentum, Rate of Change, etc.
   - User can create new technical analysis indicators.
   - User can configure simple and complex criteria for automated signal
     generation.
   - Creation of weekly, monthly, quarterly, and yearly data from daily data.
   - Handles intraday data.
   - Can be configured and run as a server that provides services for
     several clients at a time running on remote machines.


REPORTING MAS SYSTEM INFORMATION

Once you have successfully installed MAS and gotten it to run correctly,
I would appreciate it if you would run the mas_dir/lib/report_system_info
script (where mas_dir stands for the parent directory into which you
installed MAS), which will gather some information about your system
and email it to me.  This script will determine what version of MAS
you are using, the version of Linux you are running (uname -a), get
cpu information from /proc/cpuinfo and /proc/meminfo, and ask you what
desktop environment and version you are using and email this information
to me.  If you don't like the idea of a script obtaining this information
automatically, you can, alternatively, simply gather the information
yourself by saving the output of "/path_of_mas_executable/mas -v",
"uname -a", "cat /proc/cpuinfo", and "cat /proc/meminfo" into a file;
include the name of the Linux distribution you are running and the name
and version number of the deskstop environment (such as KDE 1.1.2)
you are running; and send this file to me at: jtc@dimensional.com.
(Make sure you include mas or MAS in the subject line to get past my
spam filter.)  I will use this information to keep a record of what
systems MAS has successfully been run on; your name and email address
will not be included in this record.


DOWNLOADING THE CURRENT VERSION OF MAS

As of July, 2000, the current version of MAS can be downloaded from:
http://eiffel-mas.sourceforge.net/


MAIN DIRECTORIES IN THE MAS INSTALLATION

The two main components of MAS are the Market Analysis System Server (also
known as Market Analysis Server) and the Market Analysis GUI Client.

The MAS installation includes the following directories:

    bin - All executable files and shell scripts needed for running MAS

    lib - Java class files and other library files needed by MAS

    doc - Documentation of MAS features and how to use MAS

The bin directory has the following executable files:

    macl - MA command-line client - connects to the server over the network
	       and uses its command-line interface - implemented in Python

    maclj - MA command-line client - wapper script for Java implementation

    magc - MA GUI Client - wrapper script for Java GUI client

    mas - Market Analysis Server

    mas_assert - Market Analysis Server with assertions

If you encounter a fatal error with mas, running mas_assert under the same
conditions may give extra useful information to help pinpoint the problem.
If you do this, please capture the results and email them to me at my
email address at the end of this file.

The lib directory contains two subdirectories: classes, which contains
the Java class files needed by the GUI client; and data, which contains
some sample data files.


MAS DATA FILES AND FORMAT

Since the current version of MAS expects to obtain its data from a set
of data files - one for each market - you will need to obtain files with
historic data for the markets you are interested in tracking; and you
will need some method of updating these files each trading day with the
current end-of-day data.  (If you don't currently have a good data source,
I have found http://www.msodata.com/ to be a reliable, cheap source of daily
market data.)  (Note: MAS can also obtain data from a database or from
yahoo.com using the QuoteMonster script.  See masystem_introduction for
directions on how to use these alternative data sources.)

Currently MAS handles data with the fields date, open, high, low, close,
volume, and, optionally, open interest (in that order), which provides
for stock and index data (with volume of 0), as well as futures data.
It expects the date field to follow the format:  yyyymmdd.  For example,
19990701, for July 1, 1999.

There are some sample data files included in the correct format in lib/data
so that you can try out MAS without having to obtain data files.


RUNNING MAS

MAS is intended to be run as a server, servicing requests via a socket.
To do this, you will need to start the mas executable from the command
line, giving it the port number you wish to use for the socket connection,
as well as a list of market data files for it to process.  (You can give
it any port number above 1023.)  You can then start one or more client
programs to use mas's services.  See the file masystem_introduction,
in the doc directory, for more information on how to start the server
and the client.

If you want to use MAS's capability to obtain data from the internet,
using the popular QuoteMonster script, see the instructions on how to
do this in the masystem_introduction file.

To access the MAS functionality for creating new indicators or new event
generators, you can either run mas at a terminal and use its command-line
interface directly or you can run the macl (if you have Python installed)
or the maclj script.


LICENSE

The Market Analysis System is copyrighted free software, released under
the Eiffel Forum License.  See the file forum.txt for the contents of
the license.

This software is OSI Certified Open Source Software.  OSI Certified is
a certification mark of the Open Source Initiative.

(A list of current OSI-approved licenses can be found at:
http://www.opensource.org/licenses/index.html.)

Note: This product includes EiffelBase software from Interactive Software
Engineering, used according to the terms of the ISE Free Eiffel Library
License (IFELL). See http//www.eiffel.com and, for the license terms,
http://eiffel.com/products/base/license.html.

CONTACT INFORMATION

If you have problems or questions about MAS or want to give feedback or
suggestions (requests for new features, etc.), you are welcome to email
me at:

jtc@dimensional.com

Make sure you include mas or MAS in the subject line to get past my
spam filter.  I will try my best to respond promptly.  If you do email
me about a problem, please include as much background information as
possible with your email, including, if possible, a precise description
of what you were doing when the problem occurred.
