            Introduction to the Market Analysis Library


The Market Analysis Library (MAL) provides functionality enabling the
creation of applications that apply technical analysis[*] indicators to
aid an investor in making market buy and sell decisions.  Examples of
typical applications that would use the library include charting
programs (such as the well-known commercial program MetaStock) and
technical analysis engines that can be run periodically to generate buy
and sell signals.  (The Market Analysis Server is an example of this
latter application.)

One of the main goals of the MAL is to provide a flexible mechanism that
developers can use to create powerful, high quality technical analysis
applications, such as the two examples above, with minimal effort.
This goal has been accomplished by fulfilling the following requirements:

    - Provide a well-designed set of object-oriented components that
      can be used to create powerful and flexible technical analysis
      applications.

    - Provide, by means of its status as free software, the ability for
      developers to add to and change the library itself to fulfill
      their particular requirements.

    - Provide the basis for a mechanism that allows technical analysis
      indicators to be created on the fly by end users and added to a TA
      indicator "library," as well as allowing the end user to specify
      "events" (such as price dropping below the moving average) that
      generate buy and sell signals using combinations of indicators.

The mechanism alluded to above, allowing creation of indicators on the
fly and of specification of events based on combinations of indicators,
has been implemented using the capabilities of the library, and is used
in version 1.0 and above of the Market Analysis Server.


[*]For those not familiar with it, technical analysis is a set of techniques
for analyzing market data, using indicators such as trend lines,
moving averages, price momentum, oscillators, etc. to identify changes
in market trends.  It is based on the observation that "prices move
in trends which are determined by the changing attitudes of investors
toward a variety of economic, monetary, political, and psychological
forces." ["Technical Analysis Explained," by Martin J. Pring]

For those interested in looking further into the subject of technical
analysis, I would recommend the book quoted from above, as well as
"Trading for a Living," by Dr. Alexander Elder.



Copyright 1998 - 2000 Jim Cochrane and others, see file "forum.txt"
