Analyzing Markets with the Market Analysis Server

This document provides a brief description of how to use MAS to analyze a
set of markets.

Note that in order to analyze one or more markets, the locationn of the
files for these markets must be specified to the server on the command
line.  For example, to tell it to process all files in the current
directory that end in *.txt (and that include opening price and fields
separated by ',' [comma]), you can enter:

mas -o -f , *.txt

After starting the server, the first step is to define a market event
registrant.  To do this, enter 'r' at the main menu to access the
"Edit event registrants" menu.  (If you like, you can then enter 'v'
to view any existing registrants.)  To add a new registrant, enter
'a'; then select 'u', for User, and enter the User name as requested;
then, as requested, enter the user's email address.  Next, choose one
or more event types to use for market analysis for this registrant.
(An event type specifies criteria, based on one or more indicators, by
which the system will decide whether to send a buy or sell signal for each
market during analysis.)  Select 0 to end the event type selection loop.
At that point, you can enter another registrant or enter '-' to get to
the previous menu, and '-' again to get to the main menu.

Now that one or more registrants has been added, one more step is needed
in order to run a market analysis, which is to set the starting date
for the analysis.  (The analysis will be run on data for that starting
date, up to data for the current date.)  Enter 'd' to start the menu for
entering the analysis date.  At this point you can either set the date
(and time, if you need more granularity) directly by entering 'd' and
following the directions, or you can enter 'r' to enter a date relative
to the current date.  If you enter 'r', you will be asked for the period
to use to set the date - days, months, or years.  Then you will be asked
how many days, months, or years to set the date back, relative to the
current date.  For example, if the current date is July 4, 1999, and
you select days and 51, the analysis date will be set to May 20, 1999.
After choosing a date with one of the above methods, you need to set the
date in the system by entering 's', for "set date".  The system is now
ready to run market analysis on the current data beginning at the date
you specified.

At this point, you can start the analysis by entering 'a'.  The analysis
could take a while, especially if there are a large number of files
to process.  When the analysis is finished, any generated buy or sell
signals will be sent to the registrant(s) you set up in the first step,
using the email address you provided.

If none of the existing event types does what you want, you can use MAS
to create new market analyzers (event types).  See the file
creating_market_analyzers for a short tutorial on how to do this.
