name: changing indicator parameters affects period-type state
description: When the following steps are performed: "Set the period
type for viewing data to something other than daily, such as quarterly.
Use the command-line to change the value of a parameter for an indicator;
save the changes; go to the main menu and view data; select the edited
indicator and print it.", the period type used for this processing will be
daily, even though it was set to quarterly (and says such in the menu).
Explicitly selecting quarterly again and printing the indicator gives
the correct results.
status: Discovered on Mon Jun 23 13:12:39 MDT 2003

name: Division by 0
description: Division by 0 is not checked for in class DIVISION.
One solution is to simply check for a denominator of 0 in execute and
throw an exception if the condition is true.  The caller will have to
catch the exception and deal with it.  Another solution is to simply set
the resulting value to 0, but, although it may work for the MAS, this may
not work for other applications of the DIVISION class.  Another solution
may be to just allow the bug to stay, since it will likely be rare for
division by 0 to occur in real data.  With assertions turned off, the
result will be a very strange value (very small or very large) in one
of the fields (assuming floating point division never triggers hardware
exceptions - true?).
status: Fixed by catching the floating point exception in execute (defined in
the parent, BINARY_OPERATOR) and calling the new feature,
set_value_to_default, which is defined in DIVISION to set `value' to 0.
notes: I may want to consider setting an error status when this exception is
caught, so that the client can determine that an error occurred.

name: Event log file - retrieving from persistent store.
description: When an EVENT_LOG_FILE is retrieved via the STORABLE mechanism
(called from market_event_registrants), it is retrieved in an inconsistent
state such that the class invariant will be violated (detail: invariant will
invoke count, which will throw a "bad file number" exception) the first
time that a feature is called on the object.  Explicitly closing the file
before storing it doesn't seem to help.
status: open
notes: Leave for now - use EVENT_USER instead of EVENT_LOG_FILE.
